there's certainly a number of factors to
consider when selecting an appropriate
backpack for your next outing or
adventure that can include size capacity
pack weight and your intended usage of
that pack when it comes to fit however
starting point really should be taking
your torso measurement and making sure
you've got a pack with the appropriate
torso fit range taking your torso
measurement is not difficult in fact
it's pretty easy but is that much easier
if you employ a second set of hands
standing upright as you would as though
you just put on your backpack and ready
to take off lower your chin towards your
chest when you do that a vertebra will
protrude from the top of the shoulders
base of the neck can't miss it right
here using a flexible tape measure and
that's important follow the spine the
contours of the spine right down to a
point that is even with the top of the
hip bones the iliac crest that's
important it's the top of the hip bones
not further down the leg as Liz is doing
here pointing her thumbs inwards that
helps me identify exactly the point I
should be measuring at the bottom of the
spine and see a 17 and a half inch torso
keep in mind that torso sizing can
differ with regards to backpacks in
relation to torso measurement as it
might be spoken of a with clothing men's
torso legs for backpacks often fall
between 17 and 21 inches woman's on
average may be 14 inches to 18 inches
but that range can differ dramatically
we're all different it's important to
actually take that measurement height
feels like it should be a determinant
and isn't necessarily so you could be
six foot six and be all legs have a
short torso five foot two and have a
longer than average torso measurement
again important to actually take that
measurement